Add Threat Intelligence Section (#7905)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-analytics/threat-intelligence/api/monitor.md

---
layout: default
title: Monitor API
parent: Threat intelligence APIs
grand_parent: Threat intelligence
nav_order: 35
---

# Monitor API

You can use the threat intelligence Monitor API to create, search, and update [monitors](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/alerting/monitors/) for your threat intelligence feeds.

---
## Create or update a threat intelligence monitor

> Creates or updates a new threat intelligence monitor.

Author: ```suggestion
Creates or updates a threat intelligence monitor.
```

| `user.custom_attribute_names`   | Array   | Custom attribute names associated with the user. Optional.   |
| `user.user_requested_tenant`   | String  | The tenant requested by the user. Optional.   |
| `indices`   | Array   | The log data sources used for the monitor. Required.  |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list`  | Array   | A list of inputs to scan based on the indicator of compromise (IOC) types. Required.   |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.ioc_type`   | String  | The type of IOC (for example, hashes). Required.  |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.index_to_fields_map`  | Object  |The index field mappings that contain values for the given IOC type. Required. |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.index_to_fields_map.<index>` | Array   | A list of fields contained in the specified index. Required.   |
| `triggers`  | Array   | The trigger settings for alerts. Required.   |
| `triggers.data_sources`   | Array   | A list of data sources associated with the trigger. Required.  |
| `triggers.name`  | String  | The name of the trigger. Required.  |
| `triggers.severity`  | String  | The severity level of the trigger (for example, high, medium, or low). Required.  |

### Example requests

> 

Reviewer: @Naarcha-AWS "examples" => "example requests"

            "roles": [],
            "custom_attribute_names": [],
            "user_requested_tenant": null
        },
        "indices": [
            "windows"
        ],
        "triggers": [
            {
                "data_sources": [
                    "windows",
                    "random"
                ],
                "ioc_types": [],
                "actions": [],
                "id": "afdd80cc-a669-4487-98a0-d84bea8e1e39",
                "name": "regwarg",
                "severity": "high"
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
---

## Delete monitor

Deletes an existing threat intelligence monitor.

### Path and HTTP methods

```json
DELETE /_plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/monitors/<monitor_id>
```

### Example request

```json
DELETE /_plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/monitors/B8p88ZAB1vBjq44wkjEy
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example response

```json
{
  "_id" : "B8p88ZAB1vBjq44wkjEy",
  "_version" : 1
}
```

## Search monitors

Searches for an existing monitors using a query. The request body expects a search query. For query options, see [Query DSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/).
 
### Example request

> The following example request usings a match query with the monitor's ID to search for the monitor:

Author: ```suggestion
The following example request using a match query with the monitor's ID to search for the monitor:
```

---
layout: default
title: Monitor API
parent: Threat intelligence APIs
grand_parent: Threat intelligence
nav_order: 35
---

# Monitor API

> The threat intelligence Monitor API creates, searches, and updates monitors using the monitor's ID.

Author: ```suggestion
The threat intelligence Monitor API creates, searches, and updates [monitors](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/alerting/monitors/) using the monitor's ID.
```

> The threat intelligence Monitor API creates, searches, and updates monitors using the monitor's ID.

Reviewer 2: Can we say what the monitor API does or why we use it?

Author: I'll link to the monitor documentation.

> The threat intelligence Monitor API creates, searches, and updates [monitors](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/alerting/monitors/) using the monitor's ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the threat intelligence Monitor API to create, search, and update [monitors](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/alerting/monitors/) for your threat intelligence feeds.
```
?

---
## Create or update a threat intelligence monitor

Creates or updates a new threat intelligence monitor.

### Path and HTTP methods

The `POST` method creates a new monitor. The `PUT` method updates the monitor.

```json
POST _plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/monitors
PUT _plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/monitors/<monitor_id>
```

> ### Request fields

Reviewer 2: The table is formatted incorrectly: 
<img width="836" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b027cd7-9a37-45c1-b12d-80ea9ae4a458">

Author: I think I see the problem.

> ### Request fields

Reviewer 2: I'm still seeing an issue with the table formatting:
<img width="776" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/92a3f06b-8d09-495f-b05d-bcbaad951262">

Author: The table is formatting fine for me. Let me take a screenshot.

You can specify the following fields in the request body.

| Field  | Type | Description  |

> | :---- | :--- |:--- |

Author: ```suggestion
| :--- |  :---  | :--- |
```

| `name`  | String  | The name of the monitor. Required. |
| `schedule`  | Object  | The schedule that determines how often the monitor runs. Required.  |
| `schedule.period` | Object  | Details for the frequency of the schedule. Required.  |
| `schedule.period.interval`   | Integer | The interval at which the monitor runs. Required.   |

> | `schedule.period.unit`   | String  | The unit of time for the the interval.  |

Author: ```suggestion
| `schedule.period.unit`   | String  | The unit of time for the interval.  |
```

| `enabled` | Object  | Details about the user who created the monitor. Required.    |

> | `user.name`  | String  | The name of the user. Optional.   |

Reviewer 3: i see!
@Naarcha-AWS can we remove user from request payload and request fields

> | `user.name`  | String  | The name of the user. Optional.   |

Author: ```suggestion
```

| `user.backend_roles`   | Array   | The backend roles associated with the user. Optional.  |
| `user.roles`   | Array   | The roles associated with the user. Optional. |
| `user.custom_attribute_names`   | Array   | Custom attribute names associated with the user. Optional.   |
| `user.user_requested_tenant`   | String  | The tenant requested by the user. Optional.   |
| `indices`   | Array   | The log data sources used for the monitor. Required.  |

> | `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list`  | Array   | List of inputs for scanning based on indicator of compromise (IoC) types. Required.   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list`  | Array   | The list of inputs for scanning based on indicator of compromise (IoC) types. Required.   |
```

> | `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list`  | Array   | A list of inputs for scanning based on indicator of compromise (IoC) types. Required.   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list`  | Array   | A list of inputs to scan based on the indicator of compromise (IOC) types. Required.   |
```
?

> | `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.ioc_type`   | String  | The type of IOC (e.g., hashes). Required.  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.ioc_type`   | String  | The type of IOC (for example, hashes). Required.  |
```

| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.index_to_fields_map`  | Object  |The index field mappings that contain values for the given IoC type. Required. |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.index_to_fields_map.<index>` | Array   | A list of fields contained in the specified index. Required.   |
| `triggers`  | Array   | The trigger settings for alerts. Required.   |
| `triggers.data_sources`   | Array   | A list of data sources associated with the trigger. Required.  |
| `triggers.name`  | String  | The name of the trigger. Required.  |

> | `triggers.severity`  | String  | The severity level of the trigger (e.g., high, medium, low). Required.  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `triggers.severity`  | String  | The severity level of the trigger (for example, high, medium, or low). Required.  |
```

---
layout: default

> title: Monitor APIs

Author: ```suggestion
title: Monitor API
```

parent: Threat intelligence APIs
grand_parent: Threat intelligence
nav_order: 35
---

> # Monitor APIs

Author: ```suggestion
# Monitor API
```

> The threat intelligence monitor API creates, searches, and updates monitors using the monitor's ID.

Author: ```suggestion
The threat intelligence Monitor API creates, searches, and updates monitors using the monitor's ID.
```

> The following API threat intelligence monitors, from creating monitors to updating and searching for monitors. Many API calls use the monitor ID in the request, which can be retrieved using the [Search monitors operation](#search-monitors).

Author: ```suggestion

```

| `user.user_requested_tenant`   | String  | The tenant requested by the user. Optional.   |
| `indices`   | Array   | The log data sources used for the monitor. Required.  |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list`  | Array   | A list of inputs to scan based on the indicator of compromise (IOC) types. Required.   |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.ioc_type`   | String  | The type of IOC (for example, hashes). Required.  |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.index_to_fields_map`  | Object  |The index field mappings that contain values for the given IOC type. Required. |
| `per_ioc_type_scan_input_list.index_to_fields_map.<index>` | Array   | A list of fields contained in the specified index. Required.   |
| `triggers`  | Array   | The trigger settings for alerts. Required.   |
| `triggers.data_sources`   | Array   | A list of data sources associated with the trigger. Required.  |
| `triggers.name`  | String  | The name of the trigger. Required.  |
| `triggers.severity`  | String  | The severity level of the trigger (for example, high, medium, or low). Required.  |

### Example requests

The following section provides example requests for the Monitor API.

> The following section provides examples for the Monitor API.

Author: ```suggestion

```
